DOCS-10224-aggregator-size-timeout-kt (#1526)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: aggregators/1.0/modules/ROOT/pages/aggregators-size-timeout.adoc

= Configure Size-Based Aggregator Timeout and Max Size Fields - Mule 4

To understand the Aggregators module *Size based aggregator* timeout behavior, review the following diagram that explains how the *Timeout* and *Max size* fields work. Then learn how to configure these fields in Anypoint Studio and in the XML editor in a Mule application example.

Consider the following definitions:

* The *Max size* field indicates the total number of elements to be aggregated before considering the aggregation complete.

> * The *Timeout* field indicates the maximum time to wait for the aggregation to complete.

Reviewer: Just an alternative presentation:
```suggestion
To understand the Aggregators module *Size based aggregator* scope timeout behavior, review the following diagram that explains how the *Timeout* and *Max size* fields work: 

* The *Max size* field indicates the total number of elements to be aggregated before considering the aggregation complete.
* The *Timeout* field indicates the maximum time to wait for the aggregation to complete.

Then learn how to configure these fields in Anypoint Studio and in the XML editor in a Mule application example.
```
OR
Move the definitions to follow the diagram?

.Size-Based Aggregator Timeout and Max Size behavior diagram
image::aggregator-size-timeout-diagram.png[]

> * The first process indicates that the aggregation is complete because the aggregated elements reached the total number of required elements before the timeout occurred.

Reviewer: Again, just an alternative:
```suggestion
* The first process indicates that the aggregation is complete because the total aggregated elements reached the number required before the timeout occurred.
```

> * The second process indicates that the aggregation is not complete because the aggregated elements did not reach the total number of required elements before the timeout occurred, which causes a reset of the aggregation.

Reviewer: ditto
```suggestion
* The second process indicates that the aggregation is not complete because the total aggregated elements did not reach the number required before the timeout occurred, which causes an aggregation reset.
```

* The third process indicates that you can use an *Aggregator listener* source to capture the elements that were aggregated before the timeout occurred. The source triggers when the timeout occurs.

If you choose to use an *Aggregator listener* source to capture incomplete aggregation elements, you must select the *Include timed out group* field to indicate that the source is triggered when the timeout occurs.

== Configure the Mule Application

> The following example shows how to configure the *Size based Aggregator* scope to aggregate up to `3` HTTP request calls within `10` seconds. The application uses DataWeave to set the payload of each call with a random ID number. When the aggregation reaches the `3` calls required for completion and before the timeout occurs, the application logs all the aggregated elements. Otherwise, the application logs only the aggregated elements captured by an *Aggregator listener* source when the timeout occurred.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to configure the *Size based aggregator* scope to aggregate up to `3` HTTP request calls within `10` seconds. The application uses DataWeave to set the payload of each call with a random ID number. When the aggregation reaches the `3` calls required for completion and before the timeout occurs, the application logs all the aggregated elements. Otherwise, the application logs only the aggregated elements captured by an *Aggregator listener* source when the timeout occurred.
```

Reviewer: I'm not sure that we really need to format those numbers as syntax numerals....

+
[source,DataWeave,linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
{
    "Source Name": "size-based",
    "Source ID": (random() as String)
}
----
[start=6]
. Drag the *Size based aggregator* scope to the right of *Transform message*.
. Set *Name* to `sizeBasedAggregator`.
. Set *Max size* to `3`.
. Set *Timeout* to `10`.
. Set *Content* to `payload`, which is the expression that defines what to aggregate: in this case, the transformed HTTP requests.
. Drag a *Logger* component into the *Incremental aggregation* route.
. In the *Logger* configuration screen, set *Message* to `Doing incremental aggregation step.` +
. Drag a *Logger* component into the *Aggregation complete* route.
. Set *Message* to `Aggregation complete`.
. Drag another *Logger* component to the right of the first *Logger* component in *Aggregation complete*.
. Set *Message* to the following expression, which returns all the aggregated elements:
+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
output application/json
---
payload
----
. Drag an *Aggregator listener* source below the first flow.
. Set *Aggregator name* to `sizeBasedAggregator`, which listens to the previous aggregator. +

> . Select *Include timed out groups*, that indicates whether the listener should be triggered when the timeout occurs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select *Include timed out groups*, which indicates whether the listener should be triggered when the timeout occurs.
```
